Add Tilt Pi integration (#37788)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/tilt_pi.markdown

ha_quality_scale: Bronze
ha_config_flow: true
ha_codeowners:
  - '@michaelheyman'
ha_domain: tilt_pi
related:
  - url: https://tilthydrometer.com/collections/tilt-pi
    title: Tilt Pi product page
---

This integration allows you to connect a Tilt Pi to Home Assistant, which will
automatically discover Tilt Hydrometer devices.

The Tilt Pi is a Raspberry Pi-based device that can read data from Tilt
Hydrometers and broadcast it over the network. The Tilt Pi can be used to
monitor the fermentation of beer, wine, cider, and other beverages.

The benefit of the Tilt Pi is that it can be placed in a location with better
reception than the Tilt Hydrometer itself, allowing for more reliable data
collection.

{% note %}
For instances where you only have a Tilt Hydrometer and not a Tilt Pi, consider
using the [Tilt Hydrometer integration](/integrations/tilt_ble).
{% endnote %}

## Prerequisites

1. Have a Raspberry Pi with the Tilt Pi software installed.
2. Have a Tilt Hydrometer in range of the Tilt Pi.
3. Have the IP address or hostname of the Tilt Pi.

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}
{% configuration_basic %}
Name:
    description: "The friendly name for the Tilt Pi."

>     required: true
>     type: string

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
the config_basic block doesn't show these
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1cf2c4f8-8b66-40b8-8370-69133a191e06)

Host:
    description: "The hostname or IP address of the Tilt Pi."

>     required: true
>     type: string

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Port:

>     description: "The port of the Tilt Pi."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    description: "The port of the Tilt Pi. The default port is 1880."
```

>     required: false
>     type: int

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>     default: 1880

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

{% endconfiguration_basic %}

## Supported functionality

### Entities

After adding the integration, you can add the Tilt Pi device to your Home
Assistant. If the Tilt Pi was found and there are Tilt Hydrometers in its range,
then entities will be created for each Tilt Hydrometer.

You may then use these entities in automations, scripts, dashboards, and other
integrations.

#### Sensors

- **Tilt Hydrometer temperature**
  - **Description**: Current temperature of the Tilt Hydrometer.

>   - **Entity Name**: `tilt_<tilt-pi-color>_gravity`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - **Entity name**: `tilt_<tilt-pi-color>_gravity`
```

- **Tilt Hydrometer gravity**
  - **Description**: Current specific gravity of the Tilt Hydrometer.

>   - **Entity Name**: `tilt_<tilt-pi-color>_temperature`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - **Entity name**: `tilt_<tilt-pi-color>_temperature`
```

> ## Data Updates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Data updates
```
we use [sentence-stale capitalization](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/text-formatting/using-type/use-sentence-style-capitalization) also for headings

> The Tilt Pi integration will poll the Tilt Pi for data every 60 seconds. This

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Tilt Pi integration {% term polling polls %} the Tilt Pi for data every 60 seconds. This
```

---
title: Tilt Pi
description: Instructions on how to configure a Tilt Pi.
ha_category:
  - Sensor

> ha_release: '2025.3'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ha_release: '2025.4'
```

ha_iot_class: Local Polling
ha_quality_scale: Bronze
ha_config_flow: true
ha_codeowners:
  - '@michaelheyman'

> ha_domain: tilt_pi

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ha_domain: tilt_pi
ha_platforms:
   - sensor
```

related:
  - url: https://tilthydrometer.com/collections/tilt-pi
    title: Tilt Pi product page
---

> This integration allows you to connect a Tilt Pi to Home Assistant, which will

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Tilt Pi** {% term integration %} allows you to connect a Tilt Pi to Home Assistant to
```

---
title: Tilt Pi
description: Instructions on how to configure a Tilt Pi.
ha_category:
  - Sensor

> ha_release: '2025.4'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
ha_release: '2025.7'
```

ha_iot_class: Local Polling
ha_quality_scale: Bronze
ha_config_flow: true
ha_codeowners:
  - '@michaelheyman'
ha_domain: tilt_pi
ha_platforms:
   - sensor
related:
  - url: https://tilthydrometer.com/collections/tilt-pi
    title: Tilt Pi product page
---

The **Tilt Pi** {% term integration %} allows you to connect a Tilt Pi to Home Assistant to
automatically discover Tilt Hydrometer devices.

The Tilt Pi is a Raspberry Pi-based device that can read data from Tilt
Hydrometers and broadcast it over the network. The Tilt Pi can be used to
monitor the fermentation of beer, wine, cider, and other beverages.

The benefit of the Tilt Pi is that it can be placed in a location with better
reception than the Tilt Hydrometer itself, allowing for more reliable data
collection.

{% note %}
For instances where you only have a Tilt Hydrometer and not a Tilt Pi, consider
using the [Tilt Hydrometer integration](/integrations/tilt_ble).
{% endnote %}

## Prerequisites

1. Have a Raspberry Pi with the Tilt Pi software installed.
2. Have a Tilt Hydrometer in range of the Tilt Pi.
3. Have the IP address or hostname of the Tilt Pi.

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}
{% configuration_basic %}

> Name:
>     description: "The friendly name for the Tilt Pi."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
